# Season overview

---

## Before Preseason

### 7.1 The Draft

- **7.1.1**&emsp;The first official event in each season of CSC is the draft. The draft is a way to assign new players to franchises. This is akin to the entry draft in many professional sports.

- **7.1.2**&emsp;The draft is held on a Staff-selected date and time.

- **7.1.3**&emsp;League Staff reserve the right to suspend the draft due to time constraints, and resume it at a future date and time that will be announced the day after the delay.

- **7.1.4**&emsp;All players who sign up will be researched by the League Staff prior to the draft for data about their MMR. This data will be shared openly with all GMs prior to the draft, and GMs are encouraged to do any additional research on their own which they believe will help them have a good draft class.

- **7.1.5**&emsp;All players who wish to play in CSC must enter via the draft process. All new players will be drafted.

- **7.1.6**&emsp;Free Agents that are not signed by a team by the draft deadline date are placed in the draft.

- **7.1.7**&emsp;The draft consists of all new players who have registered for the season but have not participated in a prior season of CSC, any Free Agents who are placed in the draft, currently rostered players (as keeper picks), and any GMs who intend to play this season but were not on a team at the end of the preceding season.

- **7.1.8**&emsp;The draft is divided into one section for each tier. Players are placed into the draft based on what tier they are eligible for.

    - **7.1.8.1**&emsp;General Managers only have draft picks for the tiers in which they have teams.

    - **7.1.8.2**&emsp;GMs who have players in the draft must spend draft picks on those players. These fall into rounds specified by league staff. These are called keeper picks.

    - **7.1.8.3**&emsp;GM must note if they are declaring a player into a higher MMR tier than that player is eligible for by the resigning deadline.

    - **7.1.8.4**&emsp;MMR will be calculated and shown what MMR ranges warrant which keeper rounds.

    - **7.1.8.5**&emsp;If a GM has more than 1 player in the same round (determined by MMR), they will be forced to use a pick higher than the current if the GM doesn’t have enough picks in that round. They can also choose to cut one player. They can not use a lower pick to keep a player.

- **7.1.9**&emsp;If a GM does not have enough picks available in that tier’s draft, they must give up current players to waivers/free agency to accommodate.

- **7.1.10**&emsp;There may be Admin overrulings to trades made during the season for trades out of the ordinary, at the Admins’ discretion.

- **7.1.11**&emsp;Concerning GMs who will also play on their team: the League Staff will mandate to you what round of the draft that you must select yourself. This is non-negotiable. All players who signed up will be split into tiers based on their MMR.

    - **7.1.11.1**&emsp;For example, if a Faceit level 10 wants to GM and play, they will likely be in the 1st round and therefore must select themselves with their first pick, whereas a GM/player of lower rank must select themselves in the round which corresponds to their tier, allowing them to have the chance to draft higher ranked players before drafting themselves, in an effort to ensure parity for the teams.

- **7.1.12**&emsp;GMs will draft players until all available rookies have been drafted. As this will put them over the total allotted roster spots, they will need to determine who to release from their team into Free Agency no later than the day before the first match day.

- **7.1.13**&emsp;If a GM cannot be present for the entire draft, they may indicate a player on their team who will continue making picks on behalf of the GM. These picks are made as if the GM had made them, and are considered official. All rules regarding GM knowledge, including not revealing Contract MMR, must continue to be followed. Any part of the draft rules which apply to GMs otherwise apply to the selected player during the draft.

- **7.1.14**&emsp;If a GM or their representative does not select a pick in a reasonable timeframe as determined by League Staff or is unable to continue the draft, their pick will be selected by League Staff each round based on the highest available MMR player.

- **7.1.15**&emsp;The draft is held live on Twitch. All GMs are required to be present in the GM Room Discord channel (or another channel as indicated by League Staff) for the duration of the draft. See Section 1.1.13 for when a GM cannot be present.

### 7.2 Draft Lottery

- **7.2.1**&emsp;The draft order is decided by a lottery before offseason transactions open.

- **7.2.2**&emsp;Each tier has its own draft order.

- **7.2.3**&emsp;The draft is a snake order draft, so the GM with the first pick in Round 1 will have the last pick in Round 2, before any trades occur.

### 7.3 Draft Lottery Odds

- **7.3.1**&emsp;The regular season win-rate will be calculated from 0 to 1 and will be multiplied by .75 (this term is called wr). Each team will get a point for each stage of playoffs reached (0 for not reaching playoffs, 1 for losing in first stage of playoffs, 2 for losing in the second stage, etc. n-1 for losing in the finals, n for winning the finals). If all teams in a tier reach playoffs then each of the previous values will be decreased by one as to not penalize tiers where all teams reach playoffs. This value will be divided by n and multiplied by .25 (this term is called pp). Each team’s draft odds will then be [2 - wr - pp]. n is the number of rounds in the playoffs.

- **7.3.2**&emsp;In special cases, such as a lot of teams being added or very few players returning, draft odds can be set to equal for all teams, at the discretion of Admins.

- **7.3.3**&emsp;In the case of a new team being added to a tier where they do not have a previous season record to apply the 7.3.1 formula, their odds will automatically become the max odds value (2).

&emsp;

## Preseason

- **8.1.1**&emsp;Preseason lasts from the season’s draft until the official Roster Lock date. In this time, there will be 2 cut days.

    - **8.1.1.1**&emsp;The first cut time is the night of the second pre-season match at 11:59pm EST. Teams must be at a maximum of 6 rostered players.

    - **8.1.1.2**&emsp;The second cut day is the night of the third pre-season match at 11:59pm EST. Teams must be at a maximum of 5 rostered players.

- **8.1.2**&emsp;A player who was drafted must play in a preseason match (a scrim doesn't count) before being cut in the preseason. A player who is unresponsive, unwilling, or unavailable at game time is excluded from this requirement. Evidence of this should be shown in a GM’s transaction channel.

&emsp;

## Regular Season

- **9.1.1**&emsp;During the season, franchises are sorted into conferences randomly to determine who they play, when they play them, and where they will be placed in the playoffs bracket upon qualification.

    - **9.1.1.1**&emsp;If a franchise only has teams in, for example, one tier, they will be separated before the others are randomized to ensure one conference will not have more teams in a different tier.

- **9.1.2**&emsp;Matches will take place on the scheduled date, unless rescheduled. Matches can be played before the scheduled date and time, or any time up to 11:59pm of the next match day except for during that match day's normal match time. However the last regular season match for each tier cannot be rescheduled past the day after the original date. If a match is rescheduled both GMs must post the change in their respective transaction channels, exceptions to this can be made under admin discretion. Reschedules must be clearly communicated to admins, the heads of tech committee, and transactions.

    - **9.1.2.1**&emsp;Both GMs or their representatives must agree to any rescheduled matches, and they must both notify League Staff of the new match time by posting in their respective transaction channels.

    - **9.1.2.2**&emsp;If, after both teams have agreed to a match time, one team needs to reschedule, both parties must agree to reschedule. Otherwise, the match time will not be moved. If the team cannot play after scheduling a time, they must forfeit the match for that day.

    - **9.1.2.3**&emsp;A match must be rescheduled and announced by GMs in their respective transaction channels at least 10 minutes prior to the start of the currently scheduled match time. There is no limit to the number of times a match can be rescheduled.

    - **9.1.2.4**&emsp;If the match is rescheduled, the new match time will be treated as equivalent to the original match time for the purposes of all rules contained in this document.

    - **9.1.2.5**&emsp;Should special circumstances occur, a contingency day can be used to reschedule matches if sanctioned by League Staff.

- **9.1.3**&emsp;CSC will attempt to stream showcase matches every match day. These are not mandatory, but are recommended!

- **9.1.4**&emsp;If two or more teams have the same regular season win percentage, ties between the teams will be resolved using the following tiebreakers (with a precision to the rounded hundredths):

    - **9.1.4.1**&emsp;Conference Record

    - **9.1.4.2**&emsp;Head to Head Record (among games between the tied teams)

    - **9.1.4.3**&emsp;Head to Head Round Differential (among games between the tied teams)

    - **9.1.4.4**&emsp;Overall Round Win Percentage

    - **9.1.4.5**&emsp;Strength of schedule - avg winrate of each opponent weighted by the number of times you faced that opponent

    - **9.1.4.6**&emsp;(Optional) GM 1v1

    - **9.1.4.7**&emsp;Coin Flip

- **9.1.5**&emsp;In the event of a tie between 3 or more teams, if any team(s) are able to be separated, each group of remaining tied teams will independently restart the tiebreaking process at 9.1.4.1.

    - **9.1.5.1**&emsp;For example Teams A, B, C, and D are tied and are not in conferences. If Team A and Team B are 2-1 against these teams (H2H), and Teams C and D are 1-2 against these teams. Then A and B will be isolated from C and D and will be placed above them. A and B then will go back to conference (in this case H2H record) and tiebreak again. C and D will do the same. If A beat B and C beat D then the final order will be A, B, C, D.

&emsp;

## Playoffs and Beyond

### 10.1 General Playoff Info

- **10.1.1**&emsp;Playoffs will begin on the first match day at the conclusion of the regular season in a tier.

- **10.1.2**&emsp;Each tier will play in their own separate playoffs. 

- **10.1.3**&emsp;During the postseason, the higher seed is the home team, and will decide whether they want to veto first or second.

    - **10.1.3.1**&emsp;Veto rules are outlined above in Rule 6.2.3.

- **10.1.4**&emsp;The playoffs will be played in a Best of 3 format.

- **10.1.5**&emsp;The Finals will be set up similar to the rest of the playoffs with a Best of 3 structure.

&emsp;

### 10.2 Other Playoff Rules

- **10.2.1**&emsp;Playoff substitutions may happen before or between games. A request for a sub must be completed prior to the pistol round. If damage in the knife round was dealt before the request was made, then the result of the knife round must be replicated. If a Transaction Manager is not available, the sub may be used on an honor system. If the sub was invalid, then that match is forfeited.

- **10.2.2**&emsp;During a match, a round can be restarted if a technical issue occurs, if no damage has been dealt. A player must put "not live" in chat so the other team knows not to continue playing. The reason for a round restart must be strictly lag or server disconnect related.

&emsp;

### 10.3 Offseason

- **10.3.1**&emsp;After the playoffs, there will be an offseason.

    - **10.3.1.1**&emsp;During this offseason, any new players which have signed up for the league will be evaluated by League Staff and entered into the draft for the next season. See the draft rules in Section 1.1.

    - **10.3.1.2**&emsp;Transactions are closed until a future date, decided by the admins, between the start of combines and the next preseason. However for the duration of combines there will be an "Early" Transaction Window, GMs may cut and re-sign their players from the previous season outside of the normal transactions window.

---
